# Ropeless
Ropeless is a Domain Specific Language (DSL) for logical text manipulation and behaves as a sequence of functional operations on a sequence or series of sequences of inputs. Ropeless is a logical constraint language at heart and must be equiped with a faculty of rule compositions by which to reduce and unify at proving time. Ropeless has no concept of infinite loops, statements reducing to things like `while(true)` will be converted to "just true" by configuration, or "just false" by convention. Ropeless takes source inputs applies manipulation and passes the result to stream outputs, all other operations are defined by primitive composition. Roepless has an extension system allowing one to define new primitive functionality, the burden of labor and proof to uphold the general constraints of the Ropeless system falls on the reliability, trust and proof of the extension itself, rather than on Ropeless as an application. Ropeless extensions not part of this repository should not be considered part of Ropeless, and in general, might not have been proven to work in a safe and reliable manor with the rest of the system, as such they should be considered separately as application binaries, rather than as a sandboxed plugin in any capacity.

Ropeless takes inputs from some source stream, applies a sequence of filters, maps, reductions, and other manipulations to it and outputs the result to some target stream. It can be thought of as a three step process built from a single composable pipelined type, where the middle step may be finitely many intermediate steps, and inputs and outputs may be given as lists for parallel or sequential execution. Composition is easily accomplished by way of the primitive `=` assignment operator allowing one to alias and either partially apply/memoize stream functions, with free/bound names respectively.

Ropeless extensions include libgit2, sqlite3, and Perl Compatible Regular Expressions (PCRE), each supplying new stream type constructors, a git type, sqlite type, and a PCRE type for stream sources as well as primitives supplying manipulations to help reason about those data streams. 
